
i. Loren McGinnis
ii. mcginn
iii. mcginn@fas.harvard.edu
iv. 2011
v. Computer Science
vi.  I love programming, and I heard a lot of good things about the class.
vii. No questions/concerns
viii. My Scratch project contains a bunch of cute, fluffy bunnies hopping around 
a peacful landscape.  However, along came the mouse cursor and things got a 
little twisted.  Clicking on a bunny is considered "poking" the bunny, and it 
will wince and grow a little bigger.  Bunnies can only grow so much, so if one 
clicks on a bunny too many times...well, let's just say that the bunny has 
hopped its last hop.  Pop enough bunnies, and you get a "big" surprise.
ix. The vast majority of the sprites in my program are bunnies with nearly 
identical scripting.  Each bunny is programed to show itself after a random 
amount of time, then "hop" at random intervals randomly left or right by 
rotating one direction or the other, changing its 
costume to look like it is hopping, moving a few paces, then reverting back to a 
resting costume.  When a bunny is clicked on, it changes it's costume to a wince 
for a fraction of a second, and it's size increases slightly.  A variable 
keeps track of how many times the bunny has been clicked, and after five clicks 
the bunny "explodes" by changing its costume again to an explosion and playing 
both a exploding sound and an--interesting--laugh, which may be familiar to 
hardcore Age of Empires gamers.  Each bunny hides itself then 
shows up a few seconds later at a random x-location with its ordinary costume 
on.
Another sprite provides simple directions, checking to see if the user clicks on 
the first bunny that appears, and if not, tells the user "Try Clicking a Bunny."  
The last sprite is somewhat of an Easter Bunny/Egg: A bunny that is much 
larger in size, and does not appear until the regular bunnies have been popped 
cumulatively ten times.  It broadcasts and event that hides all other bunnies 
and turns off their response to clicking, then shows itself and explodes after 
20 clicks, ending the script.
x.  Working on my project, I ran accross a few bugs, such as bunnies showing the 
wrong costume at certain times or appearing when they shouldn't, and I was able 
to add some variables that turned off those commands when innappropriate.  I 
have only found one "bug" that was not fixed; a quirk similar to the Oscartime 
bug where clicking on two overlapping bunnies would "poke" both of them.  I 
didn't fix the bug because in this case I didn't see it too problematic to be 
able to click two bunnies as once.  It just makes for more explosions!  That or 
I'm just lazy.
xi. CD-Rs or Compact Disc-Recordable are made with a spiral groove in their 
polycarbonate disc that guides the laser from the CD drive around the CD.  The 
laser stores information on the CD by litterally burning parts of a layer of 
organic dye in the disc.  The burnt parts reflect light differently than the 
unburnt sections, so each represents a "1" or "0" respectively.  The burning 
permanently alters the dye, so once a CD is recorded on, it becomes read-only; 
the information cannot be changed on it.
