TITLE: PracticeProcessor 2000!
AUTHOR: Loren McGinnis

ABSTRACT:  My project automates the process of setting up crew practice
times every day, and makes signing up for athletes much more
convienient.

WHAT:  The project will consist of a website which athletes visit every
day and submit their hours of availability.  The program then places
each player in an appropriate time, accounting for boat sizes and other
variables that may be required depending upon the type of practice that
day.  It will then e-mail all of the atheltes with a breakdown of the
practice time.

HOW:

The basic framework of the website consists of a few pages in XHTML/PHP
and a MySQL database.  The main page (index.php) will have a simple fo
rm with drop downs for the players to select their names and availabili
ty times, and a submit button to send the request to submit.php, which
will simply add their availability to the MySQL database and then redir
ect to index.php.  Additionally, there will be an administrator link on
the bottom for the coach to change settings.  The link will require a
login.  The page it links to (settings.php) will have a list of options
the coach can select (see pseudocode) and a generate button to create
practice times by submitting to generate.php.  generate.php will create
practice times, then redirect to practice.php, which will print to the
browser a list of practice times with each athlete in it, and a link t
o e-mail it to the coach's mailing list.  practice.php will also have a
link to edit.php to edit the list manually.  edit.php will have
several editable selection lists for each practice time, with buttons to move
athletes around, and a submit button.  It will then regenerate the
list by redirecting to practice.php.

Most of these files will make requests to a MySQL database.  The databa
se will have one table that lists the athletes and their attributes (av
ailability times and preferred side to row on).  It will also have dyna
mically created tables that will store the generated practice times cre
ated by generate.php.  See each file for pseudocode and details.
